---
layout: post
title: Washington, D.C.
---

> Oh, somewhere in this favored land the sun is shining bright;
> the band is playing somewhere, and somewhere hearts are light,
> and somewhere men are laughing, and somewhere children shout;
> but there is no joy in Mudville — mighty Casey has struck out.
>
> -- Ernest Thayer, "Casey at the Bat: A Ballad of the Republic"

Truth be told, there were only a handful of seasons we could've picked that'd've been worse for travelling cross-country than Spring of this year. Today, I am seated on the empty patio of a *La Colombe* coffee franchise facing a three-block lawn ringed with brick facades. Behind one of these is the Liberty Bell. I am in Philadeplhia, Pennsylvania.

Yesterday, I woke up in Williamsburg, Virginia, and drove North into Washington D.C. which I had no interest in visiting, but Sam had a friend in town who was to meet us at Mount Vernon (which I'd only a slight interest in visiting) until she was called away to a meeting "downtown." So we thought, hey, we're in a mobile vehicle. We can meet her "downtown." A block or so from the White House.

So we committed ourselves to driving right into the heart of the mess, after calling ahead to Washington Union Station to find out how their RV parking looked. It looked good.

From the station we walked to the mall. Everything was closed but the grass. The Smithsonians are closed. The galleries. The monuments. The concessions stands.

So we walked along the grass. It was Eighty Seven Degrees while, for ten minutes, we watched the Washington Monument grow imperceptibly larger until, like a weed, our cross-street appeared, and we turned down it to venture into the urban wilderness of corporate DC.

We met Sam's friend at a park, and walked a block to a hotel restaurant which opened onto a patio. We were desperate for refreshments. I had an iced tea; they had lemonades. I had a beautiful little salad, spread in a crescent across one side of the plate. It reminded me of nothing more than the floral crown from last summer's hit horror film *Midsommer*. (Was it only last summer? No, it must've been *last* last summer. Last summer was the *lost* summer.)

After catching up with his friend, Sam and I walked over to see what we could of the White House. There were fences for yards and yards before the property, accruing to high, high fences. We could only just see the top of it, and struggled for a while to get Sam his last souvenir photo of the place. Now that I think of it, the fences are as much of an American monument as the marble columns. I hope they were in focus.

After a quick stop at a nauseatingly star-spangled souvenir shop, we caught an Uber back to the train. (Likewise, I caught an Uber downtown, this morning. It's an unjustifiable violation of social distancing, but now that I am this far down the road it feels almost inevitable; in for a penny, in for a pound. Perhaps I by calling this out in my writing, I can bolster my stringency for tomorrow.)

Leaving DC was an uneventful, albeit slow process as the city drained of its day-workers. Although we'd planned, months back, to avoid this exact traffic situation, impetuousness had brought us right into it. Ours are not the best-lain plans; we oft send them awry ourselves.

To while away the hours, I threw on a random shuffle of music. Appropriately, what came on first was *I've Been Everywhere*. Later, we listened to a chapter on the Continental Congress, and the ratification of the US Constitution.

We made it into Philadelphia just after eight o'clock in the evening, and set to devouring the Mediterranean dinners we'd called ahead and had delivered to another of Sam's old work colleagues, a local of Delaware County (which includes Philadelphia). In their kitchen, we got the story of their meetcute in a nearby comicbook shop, as well as the hot scoop on which convenience-store cheesestakes to avoid in town.

After little more than an hour of talk, we excused ourselves to empty the RV of Sam's belongings. This is his last stop on the road. We packed all his souvenirs into a duffel-bag, and he ferried them across the street into the house. From there, he'll take a car to the train to New York to the airport to fly to London to return home to Mother England, and the pursuit of domestic bliss in a country to which he's not so "foreign".

This morning, however, we're meeting--allegedly--at the *La Colombe* franchise across the street from the National Historic Park. There are boundaries up, here, and several closed museums. The streets are relatively quiet, too, but they may fill as (hopefully, vaccinated) pedestrians rise and caffienate.

This, or tomorrow's, entry could be my last. I have driven across the country, from San Francisco to Philadelphia. I've "crossed the deserts bare, man," and "breathed the mountain air." I have swum the Arkansas River, and the Atlantic Ocean; canoed the bayou of Louisiana, hiked the peaks of Appalachia, and drunk its corn whiskey, too. I've seen, re-enacted, the birth of the country. Read the words of its midwives while standing where they stood comin' up with 'em.

Today, I'll check out the hall where the Continental Congress met and ratified the Constitution. Tomorrow, I'll hit the road again, because I'm not home, yet.

<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/5fle0b4Py30UeusQUzyxbG" width="500" height="80" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>
