---
layout: post
title: Salida
---

Yesterday morning we pulled out of the Durango Econo Lodge and hit the road, blowing past several more little ranches in the mountains, like Pigeon Rock Ranch, and Yellow Jacket Ranch. A lot of them didn't seem to have cattle; several had twenty or so scattered about what grass was now showing through the snow.

The road followed, for a while, the San Juan River still banked in snow, before coming out onto some golden plains, and scattered grassy hills, the horizon all ringed with great snow-capped crags.

We pulled over for some elk jerky, since a billboard caught my eye, and I figured it'd be a nice thing to have for hikes. And, also, when in rome?

I read a little from my book, "A History of the American People," and was especially intrigued to hear about the early settler John White, hired by the expedition to paint watercolors which are now in the British Museum.

We made our way to the town of Turret, which extends into  Brown's Canyon, a nature preserve declared so by President Barack Obama. There we parked down the road just outside of "town" and headed down a track until it became a trail. If we'd continued that way, we'd have come into a beautiful gorge, but we had a lot of driving to do, so we constrained ourselves carefully and headed back in a timely manner.

Coming back up the trail took real effort. It was then that we started really feeling the altitude, getting pretty light-headed as we lunged up each rise in the trail.

We were walking on what had once been mud, softened by snowmelt and then pitted and spattered by rain before drying into soft-crunching dirt that our boots left incredibly distinct prints in. There were more game tracks on that trail, too, than any I'd been on before, pressed into the mud when it was fresh, before it'd dried. We saw canine paws, cloven hooves, and three-toed raptor prints (probably turkeys') all cast into sharp relief by the afternoon sun. I don't know if I'd recognize turkey or coyote scat, but there were plenty of big brown marbles left behind by deer.

It was nice to be finally really deeply submerged in remote woods. I was especially taken with the pale, spindly trees whose white branches were adorned with little golden leaves.

One remarkable feature we saw from the trail was a massive, distant rock wall that sat on the hill like a crown. (I'd later learn it was called "reef wall", or something.)

We pulled into Salida with time to walk over to the grocery store and buy things for dinner and breakfast. Salad, a whole cooked chicken, eggs, and a few one-off vegetables (an onion. some mushrooms.) for omelettes. We still had bell peppers and avocados. They went in.

Then it was dinner in front of "Independence Day" on HBO, and some postcard-writing before reading a few more chapters in "History of the American People"--these on the more succesful colonies after Jamestown, which were notably a) religious, b) familial, and c) professional and not, as was previously a) agnostic, b) men, d) of almost exclusively military background.
