---
layout: post
title: Boomerang
---

We are headed for Loveland Pass. I am in the car. Shall I describe the scenery? We have passed some horses. It's a shame to miss the denver scenery, since it's a city so oddly situated in amongst hills and buttes. Sam remarked, as we entered the region, how like Scotland these green-covered dark rocky bluffs seemed.

I agreed, but how do I know what Scotland looks like? At any rate, now would be as good a time as any to think about what we got up to, yesterday.

We began at the train museum. No, we began at breakfast. Max and Britany had already gotten up, and gone to work. Sam and I had a liesurely breakfast of cereal, bananas, almonds, tea for him and coffee for me. Four or five machine-made espressos, in fact. Hardly economical compared to mere steeped leaves, but there it was, and I'd been invited to partake, and it seemed the least involved course of action.

We'd made arrangements with a third work colleague (former, on my part) of ours who arrived just as an episode of The Six Million Dollar Man was reaching its narrative peak, and off we went for the train museum.

As we went in through the gift shop, I made a beeline for their section of hats, keen to acquire one as a utilitarian souvenir. There were three that caught my eye: all black, except for the logo of the train museum, and a brief series of numbers across the front: 20, 491, 386.

I asked the ticket-taking attendant what the numbers meant, and she told me I'd know soon enough once I'd walked into the museum, and she was right: the numbers were of old steam engines that the museum had restored to operation, and were available (in other years) to pull tourists about the hills. Impressive things, and impressively restored.

We meandered about a large yard for the better part of the morning, clambering through cabooses, fidgeting with whatever levers, hoses, and handles weren't marked "KEEP OFF" and taking selfies with the most handsome cars. It was fascinating to imagine the world these old steam trains inhabited, the work that went into them, the work that went on in them.

It must've been a blast (or, maybe frightfully dull) to work out of that administrative office car, pulling into the station with your papers and stamps to ensure all documentation was in order. From the text of several interpretive displays, it was apparently a very complicated informatical business, trains. The names of mortgaging companies were painted across certain cars, alongside ownership information. Metadata, as it were. Other cars' ownership was, apparently, "subject to a security agreement" with the station? Bewildering bureaucracy.

There was even an informative display dedicated to the innovation, and subsequent outlawing, of billboard cars with advertisements on them. Apparently when the advertisers sought fees from not only the train operators, but the owners of the cargo within them, the federal authorities found the whole deal too convoluted to adjudicate and outright banned the practice.

This must've been a frustration for the enterprising Coors (of Denver!) executive who came up with it.

Another fascinating display was that of the train's role in East-West emigration. It was plainly spelled out that the opening of train lines cut the cost of Westward emigration by two-thirds and the time by a factor of ten! (I can only think that an enterprising person should've seen in that an opportunity to import and sell wagons at the end of the line. In fact, I am certain I've toured the historical house of at least one such fellow, elsewhere in the states.)

Seeing these displays prompted us to ask: why don't *we* ditch our car, here, and take the train back? Every exhibit seemed to extoll the virtues of train travel. It looked comfortable, even luxurious, and would save us from long hours of focus over winding mountain roads. It was a very inviting concept.  Unfortunately, after some thought, contemporary conditions won over.

The luxury of modern Amtrak pales in comparison to the Pullman Palace Cars of yore, and truly the best part of taking a long train ride is the odd companionship found in the observation cars as the mountains roll by, or in late-night games of cards with strangers who've only just come aboard. Neither of those are accessible, now, due to the pandemic. The railroad fantasy remainds just that.

Searching the rest of the museum, we saw only one component of only one of the engines' whose numbers were blazoned on giftshop hats: 491's tow-behind coal car. This I mistook for the engine itself, or else a car unto itself: "491 the Coal Car" and was satisfied to pick that hat for purchase, since it at least represented something I'd seen. Two of the engines were in the workshop and wouldn't, a volunteer informed me, be coming out that day. The third, the actual engine 491, I never saw.

But I liked its coal car well enough.  As she was ringing up my purchase, the attendant told me that engine 491 was her favorite, since its refurbishment finished up right as her tenure at the museum began, and so she was able to attend its (second) maiden voyage and associated festivities.

I wonder what it looks like.

Departing the museum, we stopped in downtown Golden for sandwiches at D'Deli, enjoying them in the sun on the sidewalk. Our local companion dropped us off at our temporary home; we bid him farewell and plotted out an afternoon of sight-seeing that had us scouring the horse-laden hillsides for the alleged location of a few homes on the National Registry of Historic Places but I am starting to feel that the National Registry seldom pans out.

We did manage to stop by the Red Rocks concert venue; a beautiful place that had me seriously considering a return trip after the pandemic to catch a show and, as venues usually do, had me pining for membership in a performing group myself. In their visitors' center I took pictures of all the big names who'd played there, but with whose discography I was lamentably unfamiliar. Maybe we'll chew through some of their deep cuts on the road! We also made note of the artists that'd played Red Rocks in the respective years of our births and, that night, made thematic playlists of their hit songs.

After our sightseeing loop, we stopped by a grocer for veggies to grill, and had them with salmon and chicken off our hosts' barbecue over beers and scintillating conversation before bed.
