---
layout: post
title: Cool
---

The lawn here is almost perfectly manicured, marred only by a few stray branches from the trees above. Their broad green leaves shine like little shields but do little to obscure the curving fractal branches supporting them like spindly hand-bones.

It is cool, here. I am sitting outside our bunkhouse in only a tee shirt, soaking up the cool which is a welcome change from yesterday's heat in the Valley of Fire and beyond. I am also still digesting last night's microwaved potatoes au gratin and pot-pies, items we bought at Davis Food Store since the microwave was a sure thing; pots and pans a question.

Funny thing about Davis Food Store is, when we looked it up, the Google Maps location listing contained a dozen photos of empty shelves, bare of food. Shelf after shelf, with only one type of item, and those in lonely clusters. Something completely undesirable, like clam juice.

Well, people drink clam juice. Or else, they put it in their cocktails. But this is Utah.

Those photos were dated a year back. Early April (or late March) of 2020. Was there a run on food, in those days? I remember hearing about such things. I remember even my own stores running out of staples like beans and rice. And now there are a bunch of really, devastatingly inaccurate photos of Davis Food Store without food in the store. Inaccurate because, when we visited, it was chock-full of all the modern niceties like any Safeway back home. Absolutely no issue, whatsoever, picking up any item commonly desired.

No chia seeds, though. I wanted them for dessert.

Although, in retrospect, I didn't have room for dessert. A "family sized" pot pie is too big for me & Sam, since I also ate a bell pepper, an avocado, and a banana beforehand. I was famished, somehow.

Was it trekking around the Anasazi Trail, where we stood over petrogylphs chipped into desert varnish? From there we could see the rise of the great, red mesas which make this part of Utah famous. Like standing waves of iron oxide. All built up, it seems, of the steep triangles rain's erosion carves into them, and the alluvial fans at their base. All burnt orange.

I tried to stand there, and let the lught burn them into my eyes. I remember thinking, at that moment, that I'd come here to convey their majesty to you and fail. I remember thinking that--

> "Holy shit, it's cold outside," exclaims my Punxatawny neighbor, poking his head briefly out of the bunk nextdoor. He shuts the door, having immediately popped back inside.

We'd intended to hike Zion, but missed the brief window for snagging tickets. Not unlike getting into Burning Man, or a COVID vaccine appointment. Instead, we used the RoadTrippers app (through depsarately sparse data coverage) to pick out minor sights and trails along the rout to La Verkin, Utah. Through it, we found the Anasazi Trail, the winter home of LDS Church President Brigham Young, an iron truss bridge built in 1929 (only somewhat obviated by the interstate it now parallels), and two houses on the national historic register (neither of which I was bold enough to get out of the car for since one was a lived-in private home and the other was being left to rot by the owners of the property. There was even a massive tree obscuring the latter. I do not know how the houses got on the national register, but Sam tells me it's not uncommon for owners of the British equivalent to resent their "listed" status.)

Before heading out on random roadside tangents, we'd had a lovely (albeit brief) hike around the Moapa Valley National Wildlife Preserve, home to the endemic Moapa Dace, a finger-length silver fish with a notable black speck at the base of its tailfin. The interpretive setup, there, was phenomenal. Mere moments after we left the car, we came face-to-face with the Dace, behind a glass window built into the side of the hill, behind which a (by all acounts, perfectly natural) stream ran from the springs in the side of the hill. There, flitting about over current-flattened strands of green moss, were a half-dozen of the little vertibreates, glinting and plain to see.

This land was protected to protect them. It was right beside the Moapa Indian Reservation, just as the Anasazi Trail was right outside the Paiute Reservation, and all along the drive, that day, I played musice from Spotify's "The Sound of Contemporary Native American" music.

That is, until we started driving through St. George, and La Verkin, and I started seeing those white, crucifixless steeples by the road. Then it was the Mormon Tabernacle Choir until we stopped for the night.

Remind me, some day, to tell you about lunch at the "Inside Scoop Cafe", "Valley of Fire," or maybe even that little walk we took outside the rail-side hotel while awaiting our breakfast.

That'll have to wait for words, since we're about to set off on a seven-hour drive to Durango, and who knows what else?
