---
layout: post
title: Bistineau, Louisiana
---

I had a dream last night that I was back in the kitchen of my childhood home. I woke up from that to the rain of the bayou pelting the roof of the motorhome. No thunder, this time. I guess rain around here comes down without so much cajoling as the skys of Oklahoma must apply. Looking out the window, I can guess why: we're not fifty feet from the water. We've our own little two-and-a-half-foot-wide dock going twenty-five feet out between the trees onto the water, and the ground is moist all the way over to it.

We're going to have a look around, this morning, for the place we're certain one can borrow a canoe. This is a State Park, after all, and they have some amenities although last night, as we pulled in, we discovered we couldn't fully appreciate all of them: running water, for instance, is best facilitated a hose that won't leak as ours has just begun to. I suppose Lousiana won't mind a little extra damp.

---

Yesterday, we'd woken up in Beaver's Bend of Oklahoma, a real popular summer hangout for families in the area, with all kinds of recreational activities available from hiking and swimming to water-skiing and fly-fishing. Yeah, that's right: not just bait-casting and trawling. Even the gentleman angler's welcome at Beaver's Bend outside of Broke Bow.

We stopped in at their Visitor Center on the way out, and perused several displays' worth of lumber industry propaganda reminding us of our dependence on woodland products. It puts me in mind, now, of the southern Louisiana oilman's slogan: "let the bastards freeze in the dark," a reproach of those naive *environmentalists* distaste for oil drilling.

"We're doing this for you," the resource harvesters insist, vehemently, "and not to line our pockets!"  Then, when Sam and I roll into town in our shiny motorhome, the locals take us for loggers, so I think it's safe to say that from Cedar County, Oklahoma, to Lake Bistineau, Louisiana it's known that selling carbon--one way, or another--leaves a fellow with more money than ways to spend it.

From the Visitors Center we drove to a gift shop on the highway, and perused Sasquatch memorabilia, then took ourselves south through Idabel, stopping for a $40 oil change, and then on to Louisiana.

It's true that they took us for loggers, at first, down at "Our Place," a pub on the banks of Lake Bistineau some fifteen minutes' drive outside the State Park. That's where we stopped for dinner, assuming they'd have something Cajun or Creole on the menu, but it's really just a watering hole with a grill. We shared simple food, imported Coronas, and a few laughs before heading to our campsite in the park. Apparently there's some kind of biker rally going on, this weekend, in support of burn victims. We'll be missing it, but I am not sure it's our scene. For one thing, our vaccines haven't fully kicked in, and unless I'm mistaken, biker rallies tend to bring folks in from all corners of a region, like a funnel. I can almost guarantee COVID-19 will be in attendance. I'm happy to be out of here.

After canoeing, today, we'll be headed for Memphis. That'll be a bit claustrophobic, but I spent six months in San Francisco dodging COVID so how bad could it be in Memphis? We'll take a walk down Beale Street, and maybe visit the outdoors part of Elvis' old place.

But I am definitely excited to get out on the bayou, this morning. It's a real departure for normalcy. I am finally starting to feel far from home. I only hope I can remember how to paddle.

<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/1jR8hhavDFMLn8mxIGPhcx" width="50%" height="80" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>
