---
layout: post
title: Fire
---

I am currently sitting outside a CVS; one of the places we're looking to acquire the cash desirable for saving a 3% credit card fee on the cost of repairs for the motorhome we left back in Bakersfield. The CVS is sitting off the 93 highway through Boulder, Nevada, the nearest incorporated city to the Hoover Dam, as far as I can tell.

Last night we spent in a casino hotel that sits beside the rail line which ran workers from their now defunct company town to the dam construction site, which was a welcome change from the parking lot of Performance Truck & diesel. While waiting for our breakfast, we took a very brief hike alongside that little rail line, past reddish, dusty rocks on a very nicely paved asphalt path. Several kitted out cyclists passed us in that time. Locals or tourists, I don't know.

Sam and I both had the hotel restaurant's scramble for breakfast. Neither of us ate the toast. I filled up my CamelBak water bag and Nalgene bottle in the hotel tap before we headed out to find a post office and mail some postcards we'd written in Bakersfield.

---

Today we'll be visiting the Valley of Fire and a land called Moapa. We expect it to be hot in the Valley of Fire, and so we're bringing plenty of water which our bodies can thermally excite, then conveniently expel. That oughta remove some of the heat and keep us the requisite 98.6 degrees Fehrenheit.

Yesterday, we took a cool, cool walk over the Hoover Dam, an inconceivably large construction project. The interstate bridge which crosses in front of it--a more convenient route over the Black Canyon than the previous way, directly across the top of the dam--looks ethereally light in comparison; just the naked skeleton of an arching behemoth.

It's difficult for me to fathom the organization which enabled either of these construction projects. So many millions of tons of supplies--both consumed and conglomerated into the mass of the structure--had to be requested, routes found for, transited, received, arranged, and all done in a sequence that would carefully ensure no waste. Or little waste.

For the building of the interstate bridge, only ten years ago, an entire set of bridge-sized supports were built for each stage, and then discarded. Each intermediate stage of contstruction was complete in its own right; able to support its own weight. And then, when those supports were removed, the structure supported itself. The products of those intermediate stages supported one another.

---

"I'd rather live here," I found myself saying, "than Bakersfield."

The town of Boulder, just outside Lake Mead Recreation Area is quaint. Not old. I wonder where their money comes from. Is there much industry still associated with the damn? Is there much work to be done? Surely there's an army of maintainers who sweep through every day polishing bits of brass and checking pressure levels on various chambers. Is there a job there for a software engineer such as myself (or sam, who seemed to express a momentary envy for those who work within the collossus itself).

---

Now we're driving through to the Lake Mead Recreation Area - Alan Bible Information Center.

"Postcard opportunity," Sam says.

So I'll return briefly.

---

The weather out here in the desert in April at 10am is just a balmy 71 degrees Fehrenheit. That's roughly thirty degrees cooler than my exothermic body itself and, I suppose, that's just how my body likes it. A few years back I'd found a route generated by a data scientist that pathed through the United States while maintaining 70 degrees. That's the route which I'd planned to take on my bicycle, and it would've had me come through this region, well, not at all actually. The closest would be Texas in January, or California in October. This part of the country? Apparently it's peachy in April.

---

Sam is now inquiring after the patch worn on the ranger's left-shoulder. Apparently they're actually well-regulated and can only be traded with Law Enforcement Officers. Even when she wears the shirt out, and trashes it to have replaced, she's mandated to remove the patch, and keep it with her. I suppose sam's only option, then, is to become a ranger. Or, perhaps, an agent of InterPol. I don't know with what jurisdictions the National Parks Department permits patch-trading.

---

Well, I am going to finish up with the writing, and gaze out the window for an hour or two as we wind our way to Canyon of Flaming Hot Chips, or wherever.
