---
layout: post
title: Memphis
---

I didn't write yesterday because we got going early. As soon as I was up and showered I hopped into Clay & Dez' house to shoot the breeze with Cody and play with the dog while the other folks were getting ready. We'd pulled into Memphis the evening prior, and parked ourselves with two wheels on the sidewalk to keep level. Right there in a nice residential neighborhood.  That was a Friday night, and we did our COVID-respecting best to paint the town red, having beers and burgers at a relatively empty gastropub with the windows wide open before strolling down Beale street and even poking our head into a very hip joint (although not staying for a drink). I won't lie, all these places made me feel very claustrophobic, as none of the beautiful young people were wearing masks. Just looking cool.

Music poured out onto Beale street from all sides. There was even one little restaurant with a completely open front from which the crowd spilled onto the street. They were enjoying a quartet with an energetic vocalist.

That kinda broke my heart. To think that there were streets like this; places where music was seen and heard through open windows. Thinking back to my days in Santa Cruz, playing in brick rectangles at the backs of bars. Or even in San Francisco with doors closed; laws against sound escaping on which places' "cabaret licenses" were staked. Places where music was, I guess, not trusted. Not prioritized. An afterthought.

And all this time, I could've been in Memphis. I won't lie, I thought the band I heard was mediocre, although I am sure they're well-suited for their economic niche. Thinking back, I've played with some amazing, amazing groups. Full horn sections. Meticulously composed parts. Really well-educated, well-listened, well-read and dedicated players.

It's a shame we never made it to Memphis. Or Austin. Or any of these legendary places where music matters. Where we could've taken off. Been taken seriously. Taken ourselves more seriously.

I don't know that I am good enough, now, to play on Beale Street and while I don't doubt that I could get back into the swing of things, it's a meloncholy sort of revelation that Memphis is real, and really different. That there is a real difference in texture, and in the architecture of sound.

That night, we slept in the RV outside our hosts' house and the next morning we took off for another indoor meal, my second of the week, and my second of the year: fried green tomatoes on a biscuit. It was delicious. Clay took us in his jeep--leaping like an antelope--downtown to the National Civil Rights Museum where we spent the morning soaking up the story of Afro-Americans' endless struggle for equality in American society, from the Middle Passage to the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. and--conspicuously--no further.

A museum that's not been updated, it seems, since 1962.

Still, it was thorough in those decades which it covers, and I took down a lot of names and dates to look into on my own time. I was, again, claustrophobic in this enclosed space. Even though the museum was ticketed with timed entry, and only a small cohort was released into the exhibits at one time, I did my best first to lag behind so I'd have the space I felt comfortable with and, when the group behind us caught up with me, to sort of run ahead into the empty exhibits, leaving as soon as another person showed up. That way, I was able to keep six feet from others most of the time and still give the exhibits their proper due, but when that system became impossible I simply booked it out of there and napped on the empty lawn outside, just happy to breathe without anxiety.

Memphis, even at low capacity, is a crowded city. I mean, cities are crowded. I don't think I'd like to visit another.

After the museum, we met up with our hosts for a guided tour cruise of the Mississippi which went down and up the river for an hour-and-a-half, all the while our guide rattled off endless tidbits about the buildings and lands beside us. Possibly the most intruiging aspect, to me, was the story of the 1811 earthquake which made the river run backwards for three days! What a bizarre even that must have been. Positively biblical.

The boat packed, too, with people seated at tables, eating and drinking. At least we were outside, with the breeze running through the deck.

The Mississippi is a working river. We chanced to see a tow-barge with some million gallons of gas plough its way upriver. We also learned a little about the competitive spirit between Tennessee and Arkansas. Apparently they don't always see eye-to-eye on matters of who owns what patch of river, and to what standards a bridge oughta be built.

After the cruise we drove over to the massive Bass Pro Fishing Shop and hotel made out of an old sports' stadium. It was also hopping, inside, but most folks were wearing masks. I mean, it's the sort of thing I'd absolutely not have gone into if I weren't traveling and constantly saying to myself, "hey, when in Rome..."

But I'll really be kicking myself if I catch the virus and die, won't I? All that for a half-dozen moon-pies and a look at some fish.

What's wild to me is how the locals seem to go for it all. A giant pyramid built into a bait-and-tackle chain is about the tackiest human endeavour I can think of, and this in a city with as much history and contemporary culture to build on. It's a shame they didn't turn the place into some kind of blues palace, instead of handing it over to the highest corporate bidder. But, then again, I hear Memphis is a broke city, so maybe they needed the money to furnish a public health clinic. Or did they spend it building a fresh, new stadium for the Tigers? That'd be a shame, but I'm not staying long enough to find out.

Dinner after the pyramid was in the back of a barbeque joint, again indoors where none of the patrons wore masks. I tried not to think about it. I didn't say anything. I didn't want to be rude, since our hosts had picked out all these spots, and were showing us such a good time. They entertained all my ignorant questions about barbecue, why's it got toast, how do you tell a "wet" rib from "glazed", what's it take to make the "bark", and why's chicken the *wrong* thing to order at a place like that?

Had some endless refills of sweet tea, too.

The kind of place where the waitress pulls her mask down to reiterate what we hadn't heard her say the first time. The kind of activity where I just can't stop thinking about how much everyone around me is spitting on my face as they talk. How much I'm spitting on folks' faces as I talk. Is it rude if I just smile, and don't say "thanks" to their faces, to avoid spitting on them? Is it rude if I speak to my plate, or put a hand over my face when I talk? Is it weird? Does it make others uncomfortable? Am I saving lives, or being uptight?

I don't want to have to think about these things. I don't want to eat in another restaurant.

On our way out of the Bayou we stopped at a place where we were the first ones in. (Oh, I suppose this means I miscounted my indoor dining experiences.) The Gadsden snake flag waved under the stars and stripes outside, and the waitress didn't wear a mask; neither did the other patrons, when they began to arrive.

I mean, wow, I've really just blown through my COVID budget this weekend. God I hope it turns out OK. We'll spend the next five days in the woods, alone. Then five days after that to get to Philly. We had the option of dropping in on Nashville, this afternoon, but I'm not interested in another claustrophobic urban adventure.

After dinner, last night, we went back into our hosts' livingroom and shot the breeze until late, then slept in the driveway.
