---
layout: post
title: Launch
---


Well here we go. We've just turned onto the 5 after about an hour of driving. We left this morning an hour "behind schedule," but what is schedule when it's arbitrarily set? In truth, we're trying to get to the campsite before sundown. That way, we can have a nice dinner outside. We may, however, windup serving dinner inside, where the light is good. We've brought some lanterns, though, and could hang 'em outdoors. If only we had a table.

So, what's the big picture in all of this? You might've heard that my buddy Sam--a former coworker--is taking the big step of moving back across the Atlantic, home to England. Before he does, however, we're going to see the country.

    Sam's estimating we'll get in at 5:30 or 6. Just in time for dinner, which we'll cook if we're not late. I suppose some of the others we're meeting might start in if they're more ready.


To see the country, we've bought a 22' motorhome; a 1990 Fleetwood Tioga Arrow built out of a 1989 Ford E350 chassis sold, by the Ford company, as an incomplete build and, also--according to the label on the interior of the driver's side door, not fit for use as an ambulance.

Which tells you a little about the purposes for which this chassis was built. Frankly, I am astounded it has lasted thirty years in such good condition. I don't know much about much, and less about cars, but thirty years seems like a long time. I'd love to work demolition on cars for a while, just to see what they can take. The more I am around this thing the more impressed I am by its sturdy construction. Oh, sure, rubber seals dry and crack; paint flakes and rust accumulates. But the engine (with all of 78,000 miles on it) hums and the windshield wiper fluid jets out of those little hoses.


    Sam is asking what I'm writing. He's got a document he's filling out  as a journal, too. Apparently we're to survey ourselves daily regarding the highlights. I think that's a brilliant idea. He's debating the inclusion of some negative reflections, as well. Or, perhaps, "constructive" reflections? At any rate, I'm playing him "I Remember" as grist for his rationalizations.


The vehicle works. We've washed it. We've vacuumed it. We've had the fuel tank vent hose unkinked to relieve burping (so the tank no longer requires an attentive hand.)


  Sam remarks, apropos of nothing, that he's glad we've removed the awning.


We've removed the awning, since it was stuck anyway. We've replaced the shocks. We've got a whole little handbook of mechanical fixes. We've had the roof re-sealed. But the fridge operates with no work, the radio, the water pumps, the plumbing.

Oh, well I did replace the bathroom faucet. And we've replaced the shower curtain.

But you don't want to hear about all that. And it's nothing to do with the sturdiness of the vehicle. I will be honest, I don't know what you want to hear about. I suspect you'd enjoy a word picture of the morning sun glinting off river wanter, peaking through bushy, green stands of Black Oak trees clustered across the emerald green California hills of early spring, but all that's past us for the moment.

"Vote To Make America Great Again" says one billboard. "Recall Newsome" says another. The expensive Jayco motorhome that's just passed us on the 5 has a large "Q" sticker in red, white, and blue. Either side of the highway are agriculture. Miles and miles of flat little orchards all the way to the much drier hills of central california. Is this "Central California"?

As we left Santa Clara County, I challenged America to show me a prettier landscape. As we charge along through these farmlands, now, outside Mendota I challenge America to show me a more productive stretch of highway. Perhaps we will see wheat and soy. Perhaps more cattle.

What's great about this trip is that, well, I don't really know what we'll see. I don't want too badly to imagine it. I want to be surprised. I need to be surprised. The last few years have been altogether too predictable. Even the Pandemic, a massive surprise on the global scale, has only limited the surprise in my individual life by winnowing my days down to deadly monotony.

Now I've traded that monotony for the unpredictability of the road. Nothing to rely on except myself, Sam, and the Ford Motor Company.

...and the network of tax-funded highways, ubiquitous gas and grocery retailers well-appointed by international commerce, pervasive wireless internet connectivity and thousands of dollars' worth of Lithium-based batteries.
