---
layout: post
title: Roanoke Island, North Carolina
---

The "Lost Colony" of Roanoke completely escaped our attention, but I do not regret it. There is, infamously, nothing to see.

Instead, we visited Kitty Hawk, and the National Memorial there erected on and below "Kill Devil Hill" to honor the Wright Brothers' private R&D enterprise. It must have been really something to take that fourth flight, which lasted fifty-nine seconds. Fifty-nine whole seconds aloft. A dream. We can only hope to approach such exhiliration in our lives.

Because, of course, anyone reading this has been aloft for longer than fifty-nine seconds. Long enough, likely, to grow tired of it.

We took a short flight, ourselves, after returning from Kitty Hawk. We chartered thirty minutes aloft in a Cessna to fly over the islands. It was, in a word, enchanting. The more I saw of Roanoke and the surrounding islands the more convinced I was that there was a world of aquatic recreation here to explore. There were sandbars, islands of beach, separated only by more beach, all mixed in with turquoise waters. The coastline doesn't drop off, it seems, for miles. At an average of meters, the shallow waters--especially the Diamond Shoals--have wrecked countless ships.

After flying over it, we went for lunch: rockfish wraps from *Poor Richard's*, an absolutely swamped sandwich shop. We took our wraps to the docks, and ate them in sight of the replica Roanoke Marsh Lighthouse. Sam couldn't quite put his finger on how wrong it felt to keep a lighthouse right in the marina. A replica, in the wrong position. Right beside a very real, well-preserved Net Shack on the docks.

<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/2JQqfVJhFnNADUJDDPmw63" width="50%" height="80" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>
