---
layout: post
title: Fools
---

April First. April fool's day. Aren't we the april fools. You'd think a motorf with 78,000 miles on it would have at least 22,000 more. I don't know why I think that. Where's the magic number of *two hundred thousand miles* coming from? Seems to just be something I've heard.

Well I haven't heard much. I laughed at people who'd drop thousands of dollars on a brand new RV and then post on the message boards, "hey, anyone know what this light means?" but here I am, driving several grand in machinery and I can't tell you whether or not I've got a 7.5 or a 7.3.

Crucial difference between the two is that a 7.3 is a diesel.

Is that how this works?

Look, I know enough to know not to put gas in a diesel, but apparently I don't know enough not to have my smoking, powerless, 4-ton motorhome medium-duty-towed to a diesel-only mechanic. Well, a diesel-primarily.

So, Bakersfield is as far as we've gotten. The plan was to make it into Death Valley before sundown, but just past Lost Hills the accelerator stopped working, and we rolled to a stop on the side of I-5. Sam said he saw a haze in the rear-view that wasn't out front, and frankly we could both smell it. We hopped out of the car (I grabbed the fire extinguisher and my day-bag) and spent the next two hours counting trucks until the AAA-dispatched Castro Towing company figured out we needed a medium-duty vehicle for the job.

At least they were upfront about refusing to charge AAA more than $500 for the job. We ended up paying them a $112 overage fee directly, but they got us to "Performance Truck and Diesel" in one piece.

This garage is across the lot from "Able", the mechanic AAA picked for us, but who said they were busy until Tuesday. And, frankly, I think I've got better things to do than hang out in Bakersfield for a week.

Well, maybe I haven't. Maybe this is the real adventure.

That being said, people don't come here to vacation. I think they flee here as soon as they're able.

So, our guy from *Performance*, the mechanic Jimmy, isn't all that excited to help us out. For one thing, he's usually working on diesel machines. So it's possible he's not familiar with the mechanisms of ours. Or the history. That being said, they're all the same in principle, right?

We've brought along a copy of the *BOSCH Automotive Manual*. It's an absolute beast of a book containing details specifications, in abstract, of every car component. Of every material they're made of, every fluid involved, and several uninvolved substances for reference, such as paper and beef tallow. But I haven't read it, yet, so I don't know what's wrong with the car.

This thing has 385 Lima engine in it. 7.5 litres of displacement, if I recall correctly. It's built out of a 1989 Ford E350 chassis. Why a 350, and not a 385? I am thinking the number "3" is entirely coincidence. These are just version numbers. Sure, they're not sequential, or "semantic," but rather are references to 3.85 inches, or whatever.

So, am I supposed to know all this? Are we all supposed to know the diameter bore of our piston cylinders? I am surely mixing up references, here.

I suppose our primary concern, these last four months, should have been the engine. We should've prioritized it.

We washed the car. We vacuumed it. We replaced the shocks. We replaced the running lights. The water intake. We decorated it with colorful, fuzzy bobbles. We bolted little bits of convenient shelving around the walls. But we didn't rebuild the engine.

We brought fifty pounds of hardcover books, four laptops, two-hundred cans of beans, five pounds of peanut brittle, a pound of pistachios, a tent, two hammocks, two sleeping bags, two sets of twin-size bedding, a shower, a toilet and a kitchen sink--but we didn't bring a working engine!

I took it for granted. I looked at that mileage number--78,000--and I crossed it off in my mind.

There were some other, better mechanics who weren't available at all, yesterday. I crossed them off in my mind. We could've been over at Blue Star, or wherever the Ford dealer recommended for old stuff like ours, but when I called them, they said they weren't available. Well, they weren't any *more* available than the next guy I called, Jimmy at *Performance*, and so I went with Jimmy, not realizing he'd snub us since we're not running diesel.

I mean, is it a pride thing? Or an expertise thing? Is it the money? I suspect he's got a lot of better-paying customers. Commercial customers that bring him regular work. We're just some one-off clowns. In a motorhome. I wonder if there's something distasteful or embarassing about working on motorhomes.

There's some difficulty in communicating with these guys. I asked our tow-driver, Alejandro, how he controls the nitro-injection of his racing truck. Silly question, I think, because it's probably just mixed into the fuel, but I imagined he'd have some kind of switch on the dash for dropping "200 shots" of the stuff. His answer was to tell me the brand of tires he used.

Control. Tires for control. Is this what they mean by talking with strangers?

At any rate, we're in a pretty desolate state, and a vulnerable position. No idea if the thing will run or not. What to do if it doesn't? We haven't really deep-dived on those options. I don't like any of them, and I am not sure we'll agree on them.

- Continue the trip?
  - Different RV?
    - rent
    - buy?
  - Different Vehicle?
    - rent
    - buy
- Find a better way to spend the month?
  - Go home
  - Go camping

I can't really think this all through, logically. One thing I'd like to be prepared for, however, is budget. Especially for repairs.

Jimmy bills at $185/hr which is steeper than the $150/hr mechanic we took it to to unkink the fuel tank vent hose in Redwood City. But how many hours does it take to do the work? What work needs doing? How many hours to diagnose the problem, even? Somewhere, surely, there's an obvious problem. Something leaking, dripping out onto the exhaust pipe.

I am hoping it's as simple as an old hose and not something harder to reach, like a seal inside the engine. Are there seals inside the engine? Again, I haven't yet read that BOSCH book.

So, any minute now Jimmy is gonna come out and ask to take a look. Or ask to bring it inside. Or ask us to explain the problem.

We're gonna commit to $185 and he's gonna tell us when he'll have something to say. Then we're going to hike to the mall, since that's the only place we think we can get 6' and air-conditioning.

Best case scenario, he calls us in the afternoon saying it was a hose, he's replaced it, $185 please and we're in Death Valley by nightfall.

Worst case scenario, he doesn't even get to us today. Worst case scenario he tells us to get the hell out of his lot. Worst case scenario an asteroid collides with Bakersfield.

Tough to predict the future, here, but I will tell you now that from where I'm sitting it kinda sucks.

At least we had some breakfast: oats with seeds, nuts & dried berries. And black tea with no milk.

More likely scenario: he finds a little time for us today, and a little more tomorrow. We stay a second night in Bakersfield, this time in a hotel since the rig's in the actual shop, and not parked outside it where we slept last night, and he does some medium-duty work on our medium-duty vehicle.

Is that how mechanical work is distributed? A bell curve? Who knows.
