---
layout: post
title: The Bronx, New York
---

It took me six hours of driving to get through News York and Jersey, from Philadelphia to Connecticut. People were kind; they'd let me in to traffic. That wasn't the problem.

There was just too damn much traffic! I know, I know, "you're not in it, you *are* it," but I was just passing through, ok? I wouldn't have been there if I could've helped it. Maybe I could've helped it. Probably driving a few hours West, then back East again would've taken just as long, and would've get the air moving over the engine.

There were times--idling stock-still outside a bodega, surrounded by earth-movers, hydraulic claws, and Johns Deere & Caterpillars of all kinds--when the temperature gauge needle began to climb. The engine was stifled in that little box under my feet (actually, just to the right, and in front, of my knees). Handily, I'd read the manual. Threw it into park. Waited for the policeman to wave us forward. That's how traffic was going, in that part of the city.

Maybe I shouldn't have stopped for gas in the Bronx. I should've just stayed on the freeway, like I planned, and gone for gas further outside the city. Too bad; I panicked. The *gas* needle, then, was creeping toward "empty". I'd stop, start, go up or down a hill, and the needle would come lazily over back toward "full". Then we'd level out for a bit, and it'd slide back down. I was afraid I was reading some fals positivity, and I bailed. I grabbed the nearest station available to me.

I thought "full service" sounded nice, but when I stepped out of my vehicle, and approached the petroleum island card-in-hand, the attendant was nonplussed.

"How much would you like?" he asked. A silly question.

"I'd just like to fill it up!"

"You're gonna do it yourself?"

I had some inkling that, in other states, they pump your gas for you. I supposed I was about to experince this, but I couldn't fathom how such arrangements began. Shouldn't I, at least, pay for it?

"Well, I guess so."

"You're welcome to, but you'll still pay extra. If you want self-service," he informed me, "that's on the other side."

There's little pathos to this drama. I pulled the car around. It wasn't easy. It wasn't fast. Thoughts of imaginary, angry New Yorkers' threatened my equanimity. I prayed, "please don't let this be the place I finally back into somebody." Cars screeched past the corner gas station. Trains rumbled overhead. The wind blew an empty, orange traffic barrel across the asphalt. I waited for it. I pumped my own gas. It was still expensive. I can't believe people pay other people to do this.

The latch was broken. I had to stand there with my hand on the pump. Is this a New York thing? Are self-servers just second class citizens, or is there a law against set-and-forget gasoline spigots?

I had planned to wash the windows. I had planned to lookup a nice park for lunch. For some reason, these taskss were difficult to do, one handed.

All sorts of things are difficult to do without a navigator. Sam was incapable of reading from the passenger's seat. When we came across shared patches of ignorance, my instinct was always to reach for the BOSCH manual, the car manual, wikipedia. He'd become carsick, trying that. Not uncommon.

But still, he was able to look a few things up on the map. Gas stations, crucially. Campsites, we'd save that for when we were stopped. When I was copilot, however, I liked to look up parks, sites, restaurants while driving.

Undoubtedly, there's a hidden cognitive load of self-service co-piloting lurking behind this upcoming week. All the navigational tasks that Sam and I shared are now mine, alone. There's no second opinions. Only first impressions.

When a sign flashes, as it did yesterday in New York, saying "TOO TALL; EXIT AHEAD", I can't ask my copilot if he saw, maybe, another truck nearby it might've been addressing, or was it maybe stuck saying that the whole time, even before we were in range?

I just have to get off the highway. A lot. Whenever I think there's trouble. So I can pull over, and check my route.

I also have to remember to check the oil. And double-check I've turned things off when I start driving, or leave camp. And I'll be missing a foot on the end of the waste-removal pipe, which threatens to go a little wonky if nothing's pressing it firmly into the mouth of the cistern.

These are a few stars in the constellation of my apprehension.

<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/1ENGe5j5pdmz1YKiW6NhK9" width="300" height="80" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>
